Credentials and Privilege Escalation
Privilege escalation modules are found
in the privesc category.
One of the more interesting modules in
this group is powerup allchecks.
It uses several techniques
based on misconfigurations
such as unquoted service paths,
improper permissions on
service executables,
and much more.
This module can reveal some
very useful information.
The bypassuac fodhelper module
is quite useful if we have access to
a local administrator account.
Depending on the local Windows version,
this module can bypass UAC
and launch a high-integrity
PowerShell Empire agent.
Before running this module,
we need to configure our listener.
When we run execute,
Empire warns us that the module
is not opsec safe
and asks us to confirm the operation.
Once we have a high-integrity session,
we can perform actions that require local administrator
or SYSTEM rights,
such as executing mimikatz to dump cached credentials.
The credentials category contains
multiple mimikatz commands
that have been ported into Empire.
The commands marked with an asterisk
require a high-integrity Empire agent.
Mimikatz is implemented in Empire
by using an injection technique called reflective DLL injection
in which the Mimikatz library is loaded
into the agent directly from memory.
The primary reason for this approach
lies in the fact that most endpoint
protection systems
analyze all files located on disk
and loading a malicious executable file
directly from memory
reduces the risk of detection.
This method is custom
coded into the agent
as Windows does not
expose any official APIs
that would allow us to
achieve the same objective.
Let’s take a look at a
high-integrity access module
such as logonpasswords.
This output is identical to mimikatz
but the collected credentials are also
written into the credential store,
enumerated with the creds command.
We can also mnually enter credentials
into the credentials store
with “creds add”.